
# Displays and Screens

## Displays 

A slightly usually feature is that a displayh is defin ed workstattion dconsisting of a keyboards  , a pointing device such as a mouse and one or more screens. Multiple screens 

As long as multiple screens are controlled by a single user with a single keyboard and pointing device, they comprise only a single display.
a single display .

## Screens

Second, each window has its own coordiante systrem. As showsn in Figures 20-5 the origin of a window is the top-left, corner of the window and the x and y coordiantes increates to the right and bottom

# Window Mangement



If the window manger mst be informed of tghe desired size of  a new windolw bnefore winedwo
window 
 on the screen . If the window manager deose not accept the desireed windwo size and position. the program must be prerpared to accept a diff

If you are having trouble4 visualizing tghis sityuation imagijng  =a winmdfow manager where no windows are allwweerd to overlap

A
An This chapter describes those underlying isszeus and assumeptios  that so important to programmjing with Xlikh

It goes into considerablyh more detail than  bridde conceptual ove3rview prov ided in Chapter\
prepared to  under standin g the rest of thsi manual and wil hawve4 a sound




You will see these terms used in Chapters 3 , 

The state of the multiple bits assigned to  each pixel does not directly ccontrol the color or gray-scale 

## Pixels and Planes 

The number of bits per pixel is also referred to as the number of planes in the graphics display.

macros BlackPixel() and W

## Pixmaps and Drawables

A window  is not the only valid destination for drawing . Pixmaps are also valid destination for most graphics requests.
A pixmap is a block of off-screen memory in the server.
Windows and pixmaps are collecively known as drawables.

A pixmap is an array of pixel values.
a pixmap becomes visiable only when copied to a window.
 
 a pixmap of depth 1 is known as a bitmap, though there is no seperate type or resurce called Bitmap.


## Drawing and the Graphics Context


A server resource called the graphics context(GC) specifies the remaining variables, such as the line width, colors, and fill patterns.

The GC must be created by the client before any drawing is done.
The created GC is stored in the serv er, so that the only its ID is passed.

##   Tiles and Stipples

A *tile* is a pixmap with the same depth as the drawable it is used to pattern. The tile is typically 16 by 16 pixels but can be other sizes.

A *stipple* is a pixmap of depth 1. 

A stipple is used in conjunction with a foregound pixel value and sometimes a background pixel value to pattern an area like a tile.

There are two styles of stippling that can be set in the graphics context.

1. set bits in the stipple are drawn in the foregound color and unset bits are drawn in the background color. 


2.  only the set bits in the stipple are drawn in the foregound pixel value , and the pixels in the destination represented by unset bits in the stipple are not changed.


stipple is a pixmap of depth 1. depending on the hardware . It is typically composed of only two different pixel values since 

The backgroud and border 

show how a tile is used to pattern the backgroud of a window.


InputOnly window cannot be used as a drawable ( a destination for a graphics request). Consequently, InputOnly windows have a more limited set of window attributes, have no border and a transparent background, and cannot have InputOutput windows as children.

which has one of the values DirectColor, GrayScale, PseudoColor, StatticCOl


# Icons

An **icon** is a small 

# Special Characteristics of the Root Window

The root window is created when the X server program is initialized. 

The default window attributes of the root window include a background pixmap with diagonal cross-hatchings, the default colormap, and  a default cursor that is a large X. Any of these can be changed. The event mask attribute  can be changed.

Any of these can be changed. The event mask attribute can be changed.

# Event 

Moving the pointer or pressing a keyboard key causes an input event occur. These are two of the simplest and m ost common event types, but there are many others. An event is a packet of information that is generated by the server when certain occur and is queued for later use by the client. 

A second 

 
Changing the mapping between keyboard keys and codes the generate causes a MappingNotifyu event to be sent to all clients.


the ID of the window
The do_not_propagate_mask  The do_not_propagate_mask can only be set with XChangeWindowAttributes() or XCreateWindow().

For most types of events, a copy of an event can be sent to more.


What do we mean when we say that an event is queued? Each client has its own event which recevvicees 

Expose is one of the most important event typ


The loop will almost always include exposure events . X does not normally keep trackof the contens

# Design requirements

so

1. 

2.

3. 

4.

Determing how the user will invoke those features is probably the next step. This means designing a user interface.

X was purposely designed to bew "policy free" and 


# Xlib Naming Conventions

* all Xlib functions begins with an X. Compound words are contructed by capitalizing the first letter of each word. 
* The names of most user-visible structures and structure types begin with an . The only exceptions are **Depth, Display ，GC， Screen, ScreenFormat and Visual**.
*  The names of all memebers of data structures use lower case.
* The names of macros do not begin with an X. the first letter of each word in the macro is capitalized. user symbols are all caps.
* 

# Debugging an X Application 

The C program checker ** lint ** for find problems such as mismatches in the number of arguments to a function .
The standard application *xwininfo* is  good for displaying information about a window . , including its windwo ID and name,  parent and children IDs and names and others.

The standard application ** xporp ** , which displays the name , type, and value of each property set on a window.

# Errors

There are really three levels of error handling in programs using Xlib.




